# Messages

Here are messages for different stages of the translation/vetting process, so
that we can copy and update as necessary. The Red needs updating for each
release. Each section also has the contents of the News Line for the Survey
Tool.

### Translation

TBD

### Vetting

News Line: Survey Tool is in Vetting Phase, with a deadline of Friday, March 13.
Please follow the instructions on [Vetting
Phase.](http://unicode.org/cldr/data/docs/survey/vetting.html)

Subject: Vetting Phase Starting - Deadline of Friday, March 13

The CLDR project is now progressing into the data vetting phase for the 1.7
release. During this phase, the goal is to try to resolve any discrepancies in
the values entered by various submitters and organizations, and to eliminate any
errors that occurred during the submission process.

Please take the time to review the error charts as described on [Vetting
Phase](http://unicode.org/cldr/data/docs/survey/vetting.html) and attempt to
correct all fields flagged as errors, disputed, or conflicted. This may require
that you contact other vetters for your locale and resolve any differences you
have in the proposed values. At this point, the survey tool will allow you to
enter corrections for fields that were in error, but will not allow any more new
data submissions.

The data vetting period is scheduled to conclude on Friday March 13, so it is
imperative that you act in a timely fashion. Any data fields that are still in
error or disputed at the end of the vetting period must be resolved by CLDR
committee members who may or may not have a good working knowledge of your
language.
Thanks again for your contributions to the CLDR project. If you have any
questions, please contact your organization's CLDR administrators or send your
questions to the CLDR mailing list at
[cldr-users@unicode.org](mailto:cldr-users@unicode.org) (if you are not already
subscribed to [cldr-users@unicode.org](mailto:cldr-users@unicode.org), please
see <http://www.unicode.org/consortium/distlist.html#cldr_list> before sending
your message).

Survey Tool:
<http://unicode.org/cldr/apps/>[survey](http://unicode.org/cldr/apps/survey)

### Data Resolution

TBD
