# Keyboards

CLDR v22 adds an XML specification for keyboard layouts, and over 370 new files
of XML keyboard mappings
([latest](http://www.unicode.org/repos/cldr/tags/latest/keyboards/) /
[dev](http://www.unicode.org/repos/cldr/trunk/keyboards/)), collected from
publicly available data for four different platforms: Android, Chrome OS, OS X,
and Windows.

Such a standardized format allows for the communication of keyboard mapping data
between different modules, and the comparison of data across different vendors
and platforms. The standardized identifier for keyboards can be used to
communicate, internally or externally, a request for a particular keyboard
mapping that is to be used to transform either text or keystrokes. The
corresponding data can then be used to perform the requested actions.

There are some basic charts that show aspects of this data.

## Layouts ([Latest](http://www.unicode.org/cldr/charts/latest/keyboards/layouts/index.html) / [Dev](http://www.unicode.org/cldr/charts/dev/keyboards/layouts/index.html))

These show the different available layouts per locale. In each layout, the key
is gray if it doesn't generate anything, and green if it has either a long-press
or a transform (dead-key). The green keys will show their results if you hover,
such as:

*   ̀a→à; ̀A→À; ̀e→è;
*   LP→3 é ë

The long press is abbreviated as LP.

## Characters → Keyboards ([Latest](http://www.unicode.org/cldr/charts/latest/keyboards/chars2keyboards.html) / [Dev](http://www.unicode.org/cldr/charts/dev/keyboards/chars2keyboards.html))

These show a mapping of characters (and strings, in some cases) to keyboards
that can generate them.

**Title** **Description** **Script** The script code for the character. The same
character may be under several scripts. **Char** The character (or string)
**Code** The hex codes for the character(s) **Name** The name(s) of the
characters **Keyboards** The keyboards that can generate that character. For
brevity, various conventions are used.
At the end of each script, the characters that no keyboards generate are listed.
For example, none of the Greek keyboards we have can generate any of
\[Ͱ-ͳͶͷϏϼᴦ-ᴪᵝ-ᵡᵦ-ᵪᶿάέήίόύώΆιΈΉΐΊΰΎΌΏΩ\\U00010140-\\U0001018a\\U0001d200-\\U0001d245\].
To see a detailed listing, copy and paste into the Input box of
[unicodeset](http://unicode.org/cldr/utility/list-unicodeset.jsp), then click
**Show Set**.

### Keyboard

The format is a series of <platform>:<items>, separated by spaces. The items
have compact format:

**Example** **Description** (de/neo|fr-CA) The keyboards are
de-t-k0-chromeos-de-neo and fr-CA-t-k0-chromeos ka/(∅|qwerty) The keyboards
ka-t-k0-<platform> and ka-t-k0-<platform>-qwerty (fr-CA|km|lv/\*|tr/trf) The \*
indicates that all variants generate that character. \* All of the keyboards on
this platform generate the character 57/64 57 of the 64 keyboards on this
platform generate the character

## Keyboards → Characters ([Latest](http://www.unicode.org/cldr/charts/latest/keyboards/keyboards2chars.html) / [Dev](http://www.unicode.org/cldr/charts/dev/keyboards/keyboards2chars.html))

These show a mapping of keyboards to the characters that they generate, broken
down by certain categories:

**Title** **Description** **Name** The English name of the locale **Locale** The
Unicode locale identifier **Platform** Either the platform, or ALL for
characters common to all platforms **Variant** The keyboard variant (such as
qwerty), or COMMON for characters common to the platform (or ALL). **Script**
The main script of the keyboard
**Statistics** *These are for all the characters (including COMMON). Examples:*
Arab:36 36 characters are in Arabic k∩cldr:44 44 characters are the same as the
CLDR exemplar characters for the locale (main+aux) k‑cldr:34 34 characters are
in the keyboard, but not in CLDR exemplars cldr‑k:4 4 characters are in the CLDR
exemplars, but not in the keyboard. *(This typically indicates that the keyboard
is missing some commonly-used characters.)* **Characters** A UnicodeSet of the
characters (and strings) that can be generated by the keyboard. To see a
detailed listing, copy and paste into the Input box of
[unicodeset](http://unicode.org/cldr/utility/list-unicodeset.jsp), then click
**Show Set**
