# CLDR Survey Tool

---

**[Survey Tool](http://st.unicode.org/cldr-apps/survey) |
[Accounts](accounts.md) |
[Guide](../../translation/getting-started/guide/index.md) | [FAQ and Known
Bugs](known-bugs.md)**

---

## Introduction

CLDR provides key building blocks for software to support the world's languages,
with the largest and most extensive standard repository of locale data
available.

Translations in the Unicode Common Locale Data Repository are gathered and
processed via what is called the *Survey Tool*, an online tool that can be used
to view data for different languages and propose additions or changes. This tool
provides a way to propose new localized data, see what others have proposed, and
communicate with them to resolve differences. During each submission period,
contributors from Unicode Consortium members, other organizations and the public
at large are invited to review the data for their languages and countries, and
propose new translations of terms or modifications, including language
translations entirely new to the repository.

Below are the main pages to look at.

## Schedule

For the Milestone schedule, see the navigation bar on the left.

## Accounts

You donâ€™t need an account to view data for a particular language. If you wish to
propose changes or additions, you will need an account. For how to get one, see
[Survey Tool Accounts](accounts.md). If you would like to add data for a *new*
locale, see [Adding New
Locales](http://cldr.unicode.org/index/bug-reports#New_Locales).

## Guide

For an overview of how the Survey Tool works, see the [Survey Tool
Guide](../../translation/getting-started/guide/index.md).

## New Fields

To see a summary of the new fields that will be in the next version of CLDR, see
<http://cldr.unicode.org/index/downloads/dev>. At the top of that page you can
follow a link to the beta release page.

## Profiler

Survey Tool developers use the Java profiler
**[JProfiler](https://www.ej-technologies.com/products/jprofiler/overview.html)**.
